README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
*Package is work in progress!*

[![Project Status: WIP ? Initial development is in progress, but there has not yet been a stable, usable release suitable for the public.](http://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/wip.svg)](http://www.repostatus.org/#wip) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/lorenzwalthert/gitsum.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/lorenzwalthert/gitsum) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/lorenzwalthert/gitsum/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/lorenzwalthert/gitsum)

Introduction
============

This package parses a git repository history to collect comprehensive information about the activity in the repo. The parsed data is made available to the user in a tabular format. The package can also generate reports based on the parse data.

There are two main functions for parsing the history, both return tabular data:

-   `git_log_simple` is a relatively fast parser and returns a tibble with one commit per row. There is no file-specific information.
-   `git_log_detailed` outputs a nested tibble and for each commit, the names of the amended files, number of lines changed ect. available. This function is slower.

``` r
library("gitsum")
library("tidyverse")
library("forcats")
```

``` r
tbl <- git_log_detailed() %>%
  arrange(date) %>%
  select(short_hash, short_message, total_files_changed, nested)
tbl 
#> # A tibble: 27 × 4
#>    short_hash        short_message total_files_changed           nested
#>         <chr>                <chr>               <int>           <list>
#> 1        243f       initial commit                   7 <tibble [7 × 4]>
#> 2        f8ee add log example data                   1 <tibble [1 × 4]>
#> 3        6328          add parents                   3 <tibble [3 × 4]>
#> 4        dfab         intermediate                   1 <tibble [1 × 4]>
#> 5        7825          add licence                   1 <tibble [1 × 4]>
#> 6        2ac3           add readme                   2 <tibble [2 × 4]>
#> 7        7a2a    document log data                   1 <tibble [1 × 4]>
#> 8        943c        add helpfiles                  10 <tibble [9 × 4]>
#> 9        917e update infrastructur                   3 <tibble [3 × 4]>
#> 10       4fc0       remove garbage                   6 <tibble [5 × 4]>
#> # ... with 17 more rows
```

``` r
tbl$nested[[3]]
#> # A tibble: 3 × 4
#>   changed_file edits insertions deletions
#>          <chr> <int>      <dbl>     <dbl>
#> 1  DESCRIPTION     6          5         1
#> 2    NAMESPACE     3          2         1
#> 3  R/get_log.R    19         11         8
```

Since the data has such a high resolution, various graphs, tables etc can be produced from it to provide insights into the git history.

Examples
========

Since the output of `git_log_detailed()` is a nested tibble, you can work on it as you work on any other tibble. Let us first have a look at who comitted to this repository:

``` r
log <- git_log_detailed()
log %>%
group_by(author_name) %>%
  count()
#> # A tibble: 3 × 2
#>       author_name     n
#>             <chr> <int>
#> 1      Jon Calder     1
#> 2      jonmcalder     4
#> 3 Lorenz Walthert    22
```

Next, we want to see which files were contained in most commits:

``` r
log %>%
  unnest(nested) %>% # unnest the tibble
  mutate(changed_file = fct_infreq(changed_file)) %>%
  ggplot(aes(x = changed_file)) + geom_bar() + coord_flip() + 
  theme_minimal()
```

![](README-ggplot1-1.png)

We can also easily get a visual overview of the number of insertions & deletions in commits over time:

``` r
commit.dat <- data.frame(
    edits = rep(c("Insertions", "Deletions"), each = nrow(log)),
    commit = rep(1:nrow(log), 2),
    count = c(log$total_insertions, -log$total_deletions))
    
ggplot(commit.dat, aes(x = commit, y = count, fill = edits)) + 
  geom_bar(stat = "identity", position = "identity") +
  theme_minimal()
#> Warning: Removed 10 rows containing missing values (geom_bar).
```

![](README-ggplot2-1.png)

Or the number of commits broken down by day of the week:

``` r
log %>%
  mutate(weekday = factor(weekday, c("Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu", "Fri", "Sat", "Sun"))) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = weekday)) + geom_bar() + 
  theme_minimal()
```

![](README-ggplot3-1.png)

Commit message:

add section on report generation

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
*Package is work in progress!*

[![Project Status: WIP ? Initial development is in progress, but there has not yet been a stable, usable release suitable for the public.](http://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/wip.svg)](http://www.repostatus.org/#wip) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/lorenzwalthert/gitsum.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/lorenzwalthert/gitsum) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/lorenzwalthert/gitsum/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/lorenzwalthert/gitsum)

Introduction
============

This package parses a git repository history to collect comprehensive information about the activity in the repo. The parsed data is made available to the user in a tabular format. The package can also generate reports based on the parse data.

There are two main functions for parsing the history, both return tabular data:

-   `git_log_simple` is a relatively fast parser and returns a tibble with one commit per row. There is no file-specific information.
-   `git_log_detailed` outputs a nested tibble and for each commit, the names of the amended files, number of lines changed ect. available. This function is slower.
-   `git_report` creates a html, pdf, or word report with the parsed log data according to a template. Templates can be created by the user or a template from the `gitsum` package can be used.

``` r
library("gitsum")
library("tidyverse")
library("forcats")
```

``` r
tbl <- git_log_detailed() %>%
  arrange(date) %>%
  select(short_hash, short_message, total_files_changed, nested)
tbl 
#> # A tibble: 31 × 4
#>    short_hash        short_message total_files_changed           nested
#>         <chr>                <chr>               <int>           <list>
#> 1        243f       initial commit                   7 <tibble [7 × 4]>
#> 2        f8ee add log example data                   1 <tibble [1 × 4]>
#> 3        6328          add parents                   3 <tibble [3 × 4]>
#> 4        dfab         intermediate                   1 <tibble [1 × 4]>
#> 5        7825          add licence                   1 <tibble [1 × 4]>
#> 6        2ac3           add readme                   2 <tibble [2 × 4]>
#> 7        7a2a    document log data                   1 <tibble [1 × 4]>
#> 8        943c        add helpfiles                  10 <tibble [9 × 4]>
#> 9        917e update infrastructur                   3 <tibble [3 × 4]>
#> 10       4fc0       remove garbage                   6 <tibble [5 × 4]>
#> # ... with 21 more rows
```

``` r
tbl$nested[[3]]
#> # A tibble: 3 × 4
#>   changed_file edits insertions deletions
#>          <chr> <int>      <dbl>     <dbl>
#> 1  DESCRIPTION     6          5         1
#> 2    NAMESPACE     3          2         1
#> 3  R/get_log.R    19         11         8
```

Since the data has such a high resolution, various graphs, tables etc can be produced from it to provide insights into the git history.

Examples
========

Since the output of `git_log_detailed()` is a nested tibble, you can work on it as you work on any other tibble. Let us first have a look at who comitted to this repository:

``` r
log <- git_log_detailed()
log %>%
group_by(author_name) %>%
  count()
#> # A tibble: 3 × 2
#>       author_name     n
#>             <chr> <int>
#> 1      Jon Calder     1
#> 2      jonmcalder     4
#> 3 Lorenz Walthert    26
```

Next, we want to see which files were contained in most commits:

``` r
log %>%
  unnest(nested) %>% # unnest the tibble
  mutate(changed_file = fct_infreq(changed_file)) %>%
  ggplot(aes(x = changed_file)) + geom_bar() + coord_flip() + 
  theme_minimal()
```

![](README-ggplot1-1.png)

We can also easily get a visual overview of the number of insertions & deletions in commits over time:

``` r
commit.dat <- data.frame(
    edits = rep(c("Insertions", "Deletions"), each = nrow(log)),
    commit = rep(1:nrow(log), 2),
    count = c(rev(log$total_insertions), -rev(log$total_deletions)))
    
ggplot(commit.dat, aes(x = commit, y = count, fill = edits)) + 
  geom_bar(stat = "identity", position = "identity") +
  theme_minimal()
#> Warning: Removed 12 rows containing missing values (geom_bar).
```

![](README-ggplot2-1.png)

Or the number of commits broken down by day of the week:

``` r
log %>%
  mutate(weekday = factor(weekday, c("Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu", "Fri", "Sat", "Sun"))) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = weekday)) + geom_bar() + 
  theme_minimal()
```

![](README-ggplot3-1.png)
